# Connecting to Git repositories over SSH

It is strongly RECOMMENDED to use SSH to connect to all remote Git repositories.

Please refer to our documentation on [SSH](/technology/ssh) for instructions on creating and managing SSH public/private key pairs. It is RECOMMENDED that, for the purpose of authenticated with Git servers, you use a private key that is NOT protected by a passphrase. That's because many local development tools, including VS Code, do not work well with passphrase-protected private SSH keys.

## Managing multiple SSH key pairs

It is possible to maintain multiple SSH key pairs for different services, or even for multiple user accounts on the same service such as GitHub.

Each private key would need to be stored in the same `.ssh` directory in your local user home directory, and therefore each private key would need to be named differently.

```sh
~/.ssh/id_rsa
~/.ssh/id_rsa_personal
~/.ssh/id_rsa_work
```

It is recommended that you maintain a default public/private key pair for SSH connections. OpenSSH-compatible clients will expect the path for a user's default private key to be `~/.ssh/id_rsa`

If one or more private keys is passphrase-protected, you may want to load the keys into your local SSH agent. This will save you from having to re-enter your passphrase every time you open an SSH connection to issue commands on a remote Git server. See our documentation on [SSH agents](/technology/ssh/ssh-agents) for more details.

```sh
$ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa_work
```

Next, you need to modify the configuration of the local Git repositories for which you want to use a different identity to your default when making SSH connections to remote. The easiest way to do this is to modify the `ssh` command that Git runs behind-the-scenes, to load the alternative identity file using the `-i` parameter:

```sh
$ git config --local core.sshCommand "ssh -i ~/.ssh/<private_key_file>"
```

Or you can configure this directly in the repo's `.git/config` file:

```txt
[core]
	# ...
	sshCommand = ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa_work
[remote "origin"]
	url = git@github.com:[team]/[project].git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
[branch "main"]
	remote = origin
	merge = refs/heads/main
```

Test it works:

```sh
$ ssh -T git@github.com
Hi [username]! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.
```

Note, this configuration can work nicely in conjunction with [multiple Git profiles](/technology/git/profiles.md).
