# BDD in unit tests

Ideally, all automated tests — at all [testing levels](/standards/testing/runtime/levels) — SHOULD be written in the language of the business, and written from the perspective of the end user or client application.

Wherever practical, even unit tests SHOULD be written in a BDD style. The reason is that, in a BDD style, the output from test scripts is much more readable and useful. Consider the difference between the following two examples. The first is a fairly typical test suite for a component of a web client application. The second is the same test suite re-written in a more behavior-oriented style.

```txt
EditTableCellValueModal
  Input validation
    √ the edit field is marked as invalid when the value is outside the allowed range
    √ the edit field is marked as valid when the value is inside the allowed range
  Events
    √ the Cancel button emits an onCancel event when clicked
    √ the Ok button emits an onConfirm event when clicked
```

```txt
EditTableCellValueModal
  Given the user has entered a value that is out-of-range
    When the user clicks the OK button
      √ Then the edit field is marked as invalid
    When the user clicks the Cancel button
      √ Then the modal is closed
  Given the user has entered a value that is within the accepted range
    When the user clicks the OK button
      √ Then a confirm event broadcasts the value
      √ And the modal is closed
    When the user clicks the Cancel button
      √ Then the modal is closed
```

The second style is preferred. Applying the BDD style to unit tests means we tend to be testing the _functionality_ rather than the _implementation_. It means we can change the implementation of something, and its tests should continue to pass. The BDD style also make test code less rigid (such code is easier to change), and so we can adapt to changing business requirements with greater agility.

But in the context of unit tests, behavior-oriented assertions only get you so far. At this testing level, it will often be the case that you will need to focus on low-level implementation details of individual software components.

Consider the following business requirement.

```feature
Given the discount value entered by the user is more than the product's price
 When the user clicks the Ok button
 Then an error message is displayed to notify the user of their mistake
```

If the implementation of this requirement is spread across multiple GUI components, then in the context of the unit test for one of those components, the most worthwhile test you could write might be something like this:

```txt
describe: The user clicks the Ok button
    test: The discount value is emitted via a "confirm" event
```

This is an example of a case where integration and, better still, functional/system/end-to-end tests will do a better job of verifying the end user's experience of the system.

Even where user-centric behaviors can be captured within a class, object, module, package or some other discrete component, there will often be scenarios where the developer, to be confident in the correctness of their code, will want to drill down and verify that individual attributes, events, methods, etc are doing what they expect them to do. Inspecting such low-level implementation details — even where the wider use case scenarios are correct — can still be beneficial, eg to be confident in the behavior of complex pieces of inner logic, in event-driven programs and other asynchronous operations, and in many other contexts. Such tests can help us to construct individual parts of wider stories in isolation, and to subsequently refactor those sub-routines in isolation too.

Testing low-level implementation details helps us to develop complex routines incrementally, and they can help to find bugs and regressions more quickly. The main disadvantage is they can create friction in refactoring processes. The wider the scope of the refactoring, the more such tests will need to be refactored along with the code they cover.

In summary, taking a BDD style in automated test scripts at _all_ levels of the testing pyramid is a good _default_ approach to take. But in the case of unit tests, it is perfectly fine — desirable, even — to mix together assertions on high-level behaviors with inspections on the outputs of algorithms, events, state, and other such low-level implementation details.
