src/standards/quality-metrics/technical-debt.md, before:

# Technical debt

Technical debt is not always bad.

Used intelligently, technical debt helps improve engineering agility. It allows us, for example, to settle with a second-rate design in the short-term to get something to market sooner, or to quickly fix an obstacle standing in the way of business goals, or just to focus on getting things done, focusing on creative solutions over the elusive goal of perfection.

Adding technical debt as part of a considered approach to engineering means being conscious of what, how and what resources are needed to tidy thing up in the future.

Above all, technical debt needs to be **logged** and carefully **monitored**. Know _what_ technical debt needs fixing, and _when_, is essential for technical debt to be a useful tool in the engineering process.

In general, more attention needs to be paid to the technical debt backlog in these scenarios:

- When systems are being scaled rapidly. There's more at stake in system failures when growth is high.

- When more developer hours seem to be dedicated to "fire fighting" than innovation or product development.

- When new tech stacks are added, and especially if there is a requirement to build interfaces between old and new systems, for example.

Commit message:

add: practices - refactoring, retros, maintenance

src/standards/quality-metrics/technical-debt.md, after:

# Technical debt

Technical debt means different things to different people. It has come to mean all "cruft" that has accumulated in a project, everything that people don't like about the code. But, correctly speaking, technical debt refers to _considered decisions to push back final choices on solution design to a later date_.

We distinguish between this category of technical debt and the separate processes of maintenance and [refactoring](/practices/refactoring).

Technical debt is not always bad.

Used intelligently, technical debt helps improve engineering agility. It allows us, for example, to settle with a second-rate design in the short-term to get something to market sooner, or to quickly fix an obstacle standing in the way of business goals, or just to focus on getting things done, focusing on creative solutions over the elusive goal of perfection.

Adding technical debt as part of a considered approach to engineering means being conscious of what, how and what resources are needed to tidy thing up in the future.

Above all, technical debt needs to be **logged** and carefully **monitored**. Know _what_ technical debt needs fixing, and _when_, is essential for technical debt to be a useful tool in the engineering process.

In general, more attention needs to be paid to the technical debt backlog in these scenarios:

- When systems are being scaled rapidly. There's more at stake in system failures when growth is high.

- When more developer hours seem to be dedicated to "fire fighting" than innovation or product development.

- When new tech stacks are added, and especially if there is a requirement to build interfaces between old and new systems, for example.
